# The Fall 2017 Global Experience

This is the first time that a class is taught jointly across 3 continents!

There are 4 universities involved in the joint teaching for the term:

- ETH Zürich (ETHZ), with instructors Emilio Frazzoli, Andrea Censi, Jacopo Tani.
- University of Montreal (UdeM), with instructor Liam Paull.
- TTI Chicago (TTI), with instructor Matthew Walter.
- National C T University (NCTU), with instructor Nick Wang.

This part of the Duckiebook describes all the information that is needed
by the students of the three institutions.

## General remarks

### The first rule of Duckietown

The first rule of Duckietown is: you don't talk about Duckietown *using email*!

Instead, we use a communication platform called Slack.

There is one exception: inquiries about "meta" level issues, such as course
enrollment and other official bureacratic issues can be communicated via email.

### The second rule of Duckietown

The second rule of Duckietown is: be kind and respectful, and have fun.

## Synchronization between classes

At ETHZ, UdeM, TTI, the class will be more-or-less synchronized. The materials
are the same; there is some slight variation in the ordering.

Moreover, there will be some common groups for the projects.

The NCTU class is undergraduate level. Students will learn slightly simplified materials. They will not collaborate directly with the classes.


## Accounts for students

To participate in Duckietown, students must use two accounts: Slack
and Github.

### Slack

TODO: Sign up link here:

TODO: Account naming convention

### Github

TODO: Account naming convention


## Accounts for all instructors and TAs

There are two more accounts required for instructors and TAs

### Twist

TODO:

### Google docs

TODO:

In particular:

* This is the schedule: ...
* This is the calendar in which to annotate everything: ...

## Other accounts for organizers

### Vimeo

### Facebook

### Duckietown-teaching


## Additional information for ETH Zürich students

This section describes information specific for ETH Zürich students.

TODO: to write

### Website

All really important information, such as deadlines, is in the
authoritative website: XXX

### Duckiebox distribution

TODO: to write

### Lab access

TODO: To write

### The local TAs

TODO: to write


## Additional information for UdeM students

TODO: to write

## Additional information for TTI students

TODO: to write

## Additional information for NCTU students

TODO: to write
