# General remarks

Assigned: Andrea

This is the first time that a class is taught jointly across 3 continents!

There are 4 universities involved in the joint teaching for the term:

- ETH Zürich (ETHZ), with instructors Emilio Frazzoli, Andrea Censi, Jacopo Tani.
- University of Montreal (UdeM), with instructor Liam Paull.
- TTI-Chicago (TTIC), with instructor Matthew Walter.
- National C T University (NCTU), with instructor Nick Wang.

This part of the Duckiebook describes all the information that is needed
by the students of the four institutions.


## The rules of Duckietown

**The first rule of Duckietown**

The first rule of Duckietown is: you don't talk about Duckietown, *using email*.

Instead, we use a communication platform called Slack.

There is one exception: inquiries about "meta" level issues, such as course
enrollment and other official bureaucratic issues can be communicated via email.

**The second rule of Duckietown**

The second rule of Duckietown is: be kind and respectful, and have
fun.

**The third rule of Duckietown**

The third rule of Duckietown is: read the instructions carefully.

Do not blindly copy and paste.

Only run a command if you know what it does.


## Synchronization between classes

At ETHZ, UdeM, TTIC, the class will be more-or-less synchronized. The materials
are the same; there is some slight variation in the ordering.

Moreover, there will be some common groups for the projects.

The NCTU class is undergraduate level. Students will learn slightly simplified materials. They will not collaborate directly with the classes.


## Accounts for students

To participate in Duckietown, students must use two accounts: Slack
and Github.

### Slack

You need a Slack account, for team discussion and organization.

TODO: Sign up link here:

TODO: Account naming convention

### Github

TODO: Account naming convention

- A Github account;

- Membership in the Duckietown organization.


## Repositories

These are the repositories we use.

### Software

The [Software](http://github.com/duckietown/Software) repository
is the main repository that contains the software.

The URL to clone is:

    git@github.com:duckietown/Software.git

In the documentation, this is referred to as `DUCKIETOWN_ROOT`.

During the first part of the class, you will only read from this repository.

### Duckiefleet

The [duckiefleet-fall2017](http://github.com/duckietown/duckiefleet-fall2017)
repository contains the data specific to this instance of the class.

The URL to clone is:

    git@github.com:duckietown/duckiefleet-fall2017.git

In the documentation, this is referred to as `DUCKIEFLEET_ROOT`.

You will be asked to write to this repository, to update the robot DB
and the people DB, and for doing exercises.

### Duckuments

The [Duckuments](http://github.com/duckietown/duckuments) repository
is the one that contains this documentation.

The URL to clone is:

    git@github.com:duckietown/duckuments.git

Everybody is encouraged to edit this documentation!

In particular, feel free to insert comments.


### Lectures

The [lectures](http://github.com/duckietown/lectures) repository
contains the lecture slides.

The URL to clone is:

    git@github.com:duckietown/lectures.git

Students are welcome to use this repository to get the slides,
however, please note that this is a space full of drafts.


### Exercises

The [exercises](http://github.com/duckietown/XX-exercises) repository
contains the solution to exercises.

The URL to clone is:

    git@github.com:duckietown/XX-exercises.git

Only TAs have write permissions to this repository.


## Roster

<div id='staff'>
    <move-here src='#censi-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#paull-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#tani-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#walter-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#frazzoli-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#shiying_li-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#ercan_selcuk-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#miguel_delaiglesia-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#harshit_kurhana-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#lapandic_dzenan-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#marco_erni-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#andrea_daniele-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#falcon_dai-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#jon_michaux-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#florian_golemo-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#greta-roster'/>
    <move-here src='#bowser-roster'/>
    <div style='clear:both'></div>
</div>

<style>
#staff div.roster-person {
    margin-top: 1em;
}
</style>


To add yourself to the roster, or to change your picture,
add a YAML file and a jpg file to [the `duckiefleet-fall2017` repository](http://github.com/duckietown/duckiefleet-fall2017).
in the [`people/staff` directory][db-staff].

[db-staff]: https://github.com/duckietown/duckiefleet-fall2017/tree/master/people

<!-- ### Regenerating the roster

To regenerate the roster, in DUCKIETOWN_ROOT use the command

    $ make generate-roster

To do this, you need to have three repositories: duckuments, duckiefleet, and  -->


## Getting help and giving help

### General points of contact

We have an [organization chart][org-chart] that lists the areas of responsibility.

For each topic, there are three columns: a "manager", a point of contact for the Americas,
and a point of contact for Europe.

The manager is the person in charge of keeping track of the status of the area.
(There might be other people working on that area/functionality, but they are not listed there.)

The points of contact are the people that are responsible to answer questions from the students.
There is 2, so one is awake at all times.

Note that if you are in Europe, it is fine to ask for help to the Americas point of contact,
and vice versa. It's all a big class.

On each rows, there is also a pointer to the appropriate Slack channel, if any, to discuss.

### Point of contacts for specific documents

Certain documents have specific points of contacts, listed at the top.
These override the listing in the organization chart.

### Problems while following instructions

If you encounter a problem when you are following the instructions,
you have the moral obligation to edit the Markdown and insert a comment.

The goal for the instructions is that anybody is able to follow them.
Last year, we managed to have two 15-year-old students
reproduce the Duckiebot from instructions.

See: How to edit the documentation is explained in [](#part:contribute).
In particular, the notation on how to insert a comment is explained in [](#notes-and-questions).

Note that because we use Git, we can always keep track of changes, and there
is no risk of causing damage.

If you encounter typos, feel free to edit them directly.

Feel free to add additional explanations.


#### How to deal with mistakes in instructions

One thing that is very delicate is dealing with mistakes in the instructions.

A few times the following happened: there is a sequence of commands `cmd1;cmd2;cmd3`
and `cmd2` has a mistake, and `cmd2b` is the right one, so that the sequence
of commands is `cmd1;cmd2b;cmd3`. In those situations we first just corrected
the command `cmd2`.

However, that created a problem: now half of the students had used `cmd1;cmd2;cmd3`
and half of the students had used `cmd1;cmd2b;cmd3`: the states had diverged.
Now chaos might arise, because there is the possibility of "forks".

Therefore, if a mistaken instruction is found, rather than just fixing the mistake,
please add an addendum at the end of the section.

For example: "Note that instruction `cmd2` is wrong; it should be `cmd2b`. To fix
this, please enter then command `cmd4`".

Later, when everybody has gone through the instructions, the mistake is
fixed and the addendum is deleted.



### Well-defined software defects

If you encounter a software defect, then open an issue
on [the Github issue tracker for the `Software` repository][issues-Software].

### Problems with the documentation system itself

We have a very powerful, but experimental system for writing the documentation
and eventually create the "Duckietown magic book".

If you encounter an issue, please open an issue on the [Github issue tracker for the `duckuments` repository][issues-duckuments].

[issues-duckuments]: github.com/duckietown/duckuments/issues
[issues-Software]: github.com/duckietown/Software/issues


### Problems with the hardware

If you have problems with the hardware, please contact the local hardware representative,
as listed in the [organization chart][org-chart].

### Help with accounts and permissions

For accounts and permissions help, please contact Kirstin on Slack.

Slack channel: ???


[org-chart]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18bG3BBsFGZllVeFBh3ygvXacHCO6gckMBqH77yvZnrw/edit?usp=sharing
