
# Smart City Theory {#smart-city-theory}


This document describes the theory behind the two primary parts of the Smart City project: painted tiles and power grid. 


## Painted-Tiles {#painted-tiles-theory}

Fabricating Duckietown tiles is a time consuming processes which involves cutting hundreds of pieces of tape to lay down for the lane markings. Our project attempts to expedite this process, using a mask and colored spray paint to create the lane markings. Also, tape lane markings are glossy and reflect large amounts of light, creating noisey line segments. We theorized the painted lines would be less glossy, and therefore generate better line segments for the duckiebot. 

In order to validate our claim, data was generated by a node subscribed to SegmentList messages. The message count was split by color, binned for one second, and then averaged over a minute. To limit systematic error and false positives, the tiles were placed in the same location under the same lighting conditions. We collected data under bright, normal, and dark lighting conditions. The quality of fabrication was measured as a function of visible yellow line segments, as the white line segments are quite noisy due to both the environment and reflections off the tile triggering the detector. 

Our results show that the painted lines produce 20% fewer yellow line segments under standard lighting conditions, 50% fewer under dark conditions, and are consistent under bright conditions. If fabrication of  Duckietown tiles is time sensitive, the lines may be painted with a slight loss to line segment detection. 

However, the amount of line segments may not correlate with the quality of the line segments. Future work would include creating a small track for the bot to drive through made of painted tiles, and observing the duckiebot’s ability to stay in the lane. Also, the data was generated with a stationary bot, and with motion blur the data may vary. 




## Power Grid {#power-grid-theory}

In conjunction with the idea of making Duckietown a smart city, the primary purpose behind adding a power grid is to enable people to add peripheral devices to the city. These devices could either enhance the functionality of the town, such as adding traffic lights and wireless charging ‘gas stations’, or they could enhance the aesthetics of the town, such as LED billboards and street lights for ‘night-time’ driving. 

The primary objectives for the power grid was to find a method to reliably provide power to all of the tiles in the Duckietown that is not only easy to implement, but also relatively cheap. The primary metrics we used to evaluate the different approaches and our final implementation was the maximum power provided per tile, the ease of manufacturing and installing, the robustness of the power grid under normal usage, and cost. 
